
The tree roots twisted together in the forest. The rain had slowed to droplets. When Matthis reached the Hollow, Rafe already stood at its center. The gibbous moon broke the clouds. Mist covered their feet. Two orbs of light danced around Rafe. Matthis mistook them for fireflies at first. But on closer look, he saw they were fairies. He stood next to Rafe. The fairies circled the two of them. Matthis held out his hand. One of the tiny beings touched his thumb and zipped away. The other bobbed between trees and out of sight. They watched the moon sink into the leaves.

"I used to hunt here," said Matthis. He pointed. "I set a blind in that tree."

The mist twisted around their feet. Wet leaves shimmered in the silver light. Matthis tightened his coat around him.

Rafe glanced at Matthis and then touched a tree. Something crawled on his hand. Matthis stood beside him. It looked like an insect at first. Matthis squinted at it. It had human legs. Its skin was the color of bark. It opened its beetle wings and flew back to its tree.

"I call them woodland sprites," said Rafe.

"Why haven't I seen them before?"

Rafe studied him. The trees trembled. Mottled moonlight cast half his face in shadow. Below, the mist dissipated to reveal stringy grass. Rafe took a long breath.

"What happened," he said, "when the wizard left its cage. How did you do it?"

Matthis met Rafe's moonlit eye. Rafe didn't look away. Matthis wrapped his arms around himself. He took a long breath. Rafe waited. Insects, or perhaps sprites, clicked.

"When I touched him," said Matthis, "it hurt. I passed out."

Rafe picked up a stick. He snapped a twig from it and held it up to the light. He passed it to Matthis. Matthis leaned his weight on it and it held. It felt good in his hand.

"When I held Aurora," he continued, "it hurt then, too."

Matthis passed the stick back to Rafe, who examined the short end. Matthis leaned his head back. The clouds had gone.

"What am I," he whispered.

Matthis could feel Rafe looking at him. Rafe leaned the stick against the tree.

"I thought you knew."

Matthis lowered his chin and met Rafe's eyes. His entire face shone in the moonlight. Rafe smiled.

"Have you ever wondered, Matthis," he said, "why some people will do whatever one person says, but ignore someone else?"

They looked at the stars. Insects clicked around them. The hollow hummed with soft clicks and buzzes.

"What do you mean?" Matthis said to the silver peaks.

"I got sick, too," said Rafe, "the first time I used magic." He paused. "It gets easier."

Matthis closed his eyes. His breath came in bursts. A weight he didn't know he was carrying lifted from his chest. He looked at Rafe. Even in the moonlight, he could see that Rafe's eyes were red. Matthis couldn't resist the tears any longer. One trickled down his cheek.

"It's been so, so lonely," said Rafe, his voice tight. "Hasn't it?"

Matthis gasped and trembled. Rafe smiled at him. Matthis smiled back.

Insects clicked in the hollow. Warm wind ruffled their hair. The two men embraced each other. Alone no more.