The tree roots twisted together in the forest. The rain had slowed to droplets. When Matthis reached the Hollow, Rafe already stood at its center. The gibbous moon broke the clouds. Mist covered their feet. Two orbs of light danced around Rafe. Matthis mistook them for fireflies at first. But on closer look, he saw they were fairies. He stood next to Rafe. The fairies circled the two of them. Matthis held out his hand. One of the tiny beings touched his thumb and zipped away. The other bobbed between trees and out of sight. They watched the moon sink into the leaves.

"I used to hunt here," said Matthis. He pointed. "I set a blind in that tree."

The mist twisted around their feet. Wet leaves shimmered in the silver light. Matthis tightened his coat around him.

Rafe glanced at Matthis and then touched a tree. Something crawled on his hand. Matthis stood beside him. It looked like an insect at first. Matthis squinted at it. It had human legs. Its skin was the color of bark. It opened its beetle wings and flew back to its tree.

"I call them woodland sprites," said Rafe.

"Why haven't I seen them before?"

Rafe studied him. The trees trembled. Mottled moonlight cast half his face in shadow. Below, the mist dissipated to reveal stringy grass. Rafe took a long breath.

"What happened," he said, "when the wizard left its cage. How did you do it?"

Matthis met Rafe's moonlit eye. Rafe didn't look away. Matthis wrapped his arms around himself. He took a long breath. Rafe waited. Insects, or perhaps sprites, clicked.

"When I touched him," said Matthis, "it hurt. I passed out."

Rafe picked up a stick. He snapped a twig off it and held it up to the light. He passed it to Matthis. Matthis leaned his weight on it, and it held. It felt good in his hand.

"When I held Aura," he continued, "it didn't hurt in the same way."

Matthis passed the stick back to Rafe, who examined the short end. Matthis leaned his head back. The clouds had gone.

"What am I," he whispered.

Matthis could feel Rafe looking at him. Rafe leaned the stick against the tree.

"I thought you knew."

Matthis met Rafe's eyes. Rafe's entire face shone in the moonlight. He smiled.

"Have you ever wondered, Matthis," he said, "why some people will do whatever one person says, but ignore someone else?"

They looked at the stars. Insects clicked around them. The hollow hummed with soft clicks and buzzes.

"What do you mean?" Matthis said to the silver peaks.

"I got sick, too," said Rafe, "the first time I used magic." He paused. "It gets easier."

Matthis closed his eyes. His breath came in bursts. A weight he didn't know he was carrying lifted from his chest. He looked at Rafe. Even in the moonlight, he could see that Rafe's eyes were red. Matthis couldn't resist the tears any longer. One trickled down his cheek.

"It's been so, so lonely," said Rafe, his voice tight. "Hasn't it?"

Matthis gasped and trembled. Rafe smiled at him. Matthis smiled back.

Insects clicked in the hollow. Warm wind ruffled their hair. The two men embraced each other. Alone no more.

--

Matthis and Rafe picked through the woods. Crickets added their rhythm to the clicks of insects and sprites. Rafe held up a hand and waved Matthis to a tree. A cluster of tiny human shapes gathered around a wound in the tree bark. Little people with black, shiny skin and twiggy little arms and legs crawled over one another in a pile. Their hands and feet ended in a pair of pincer-like toes that gripped the bark. Their tiny tongues lapped the tree sap without any movement of their hairless heads. The ant-like creatures trundled over one another to make their way to the sap. The men admired the way the ant people seemed to melt into the tree bark. Without a word, they continued toward Coalridge.

"So," said Matthis into the trees, "wizards don't sleep for only two hours a night."

Rafe nodded. "Also, when was the last time you ate?"

Matthis tapped his leg with the stick they had found in the hollow. Elspeth's bread, after he returned from his visit to the mine, was his last meal. The trees shivered. Some creature scratched and rustled in something in the trees far behind them. Sounded like badger claws, Matthis thought.

They found a wide thicket of bramble bushes and circled around it. Matthis tapped Rafe's shoulder and pointed up at the trees. A pair of eyes stared down at them, frozen in place. A pair of black ears poked above a furry head. A sleek tail hung behind it. The fox followed their movements without a stir of leaves.

When they rounded the bramble thicket, Rafe stopped. "Can you feel people's emotions, yet? The way they ..." He held his hand up and flexed it, his eyes on the branches overhead. "The way they sustain you?"

Matthis thought about the day he had touched the wizard. The mob's anger had washed over him like icy rain. He thought of Elspeth's woodpile. He remembered the softness of her cheek on his thumb. At the Miner's Guild house, he had almost felt Mercy's triumphant smile better than he saw it.

Matthis grunted. "Wizards don't do that either."

The trees thinned. Rooftops huddled together on one side of the village. From here, they could see the glint of moonlight on the Pit Bell.

"People listen to you," said Matthis, his eyes on the bell, "more than they listen to others."

Rafe nodded. "With practice, your magic will do the same."

Matthis took a long, deep breath. The air smelled fresh. Pine, oak, rain. He remembered the book and the man with his hands raised and thousands kneeling before him. Matthis shook his head. No. Not that. 

They squeezed between two buildings. Water dripped onto Matthis' forehead from the roof. They emerged onto packed dirt and strolled down the middle of the road. The scent of the air changed. They stepped over a pile of horse manure.

"You've kept this a secret for a long time." Matthis's soft voice echoed off the timber walls.

"... Yes." Rafe tipped his head back and let out a long breath. It turned to white fog and vanished.

When they reached the center of the village square, they faced each other. The mountains hid half the moon. They heard only crickets. They shook hands. Matthis turned toward the gallows. Rafe watched him for a moment and turned his own way.

Matthis found the wizard in exactly the same spot he had left it. Its feet bones had sunk into the dirt. It stood in a shallow puddle of mud. Its sockets stared at the gibbets. Matthis stood beside the wizard. With the its feet partially sunk in the ground, they stood at about the same height now.

Matthis moved in front of the wizard. It didn't move. He held his hand up, inches from its chest. He remembered the last time he had touched the black skeleton. He swallowed and lowered his hand.

He squared his shoulders. "What," he said, "do you want?"

The wizard did not moan. It lowered its head. No light entered its black sockets. It looked at him.