Rafe and Matthis stood with arms folded before the gallows. Droplets on the top beam sparkled in the sun. The gibbets hung from it in shadow. Bones clacked on chains in the wind. The dead wizard made no sound. It had sunk to its ankles in the mud. Its sockets did not leave the gibbets.

"They called me an incubus," Matthis said. "They asked me not to ... to dominate them."

Rafe nodded and said nothing. Matthis shivered, but not with cold.

"How long," said Matthis, his eyes on the skeletons, "have you known?"

Rafe took a long breath. "You're stalling, Matthis."

Matthis looked sideways at Rafe. His lips had thinned, and his eyes were hard.

Matthis looked at his boots. "I don't want it to hurt again," he whispered.

Rafe placed a hand on Matthis' shoulder. Matthis breathed until his ribs stopped shaking. He stepped forward.

The skeleton on the far right of the gallows strained in his gibbet toward Matthis, who seized both of its pale wrists before the bony fingers could rip his eyes out. The jaws opened and shut with a hollow gock sound. Matthis closed his eyes and focused as Rafe had taught him earlier.

Magic felt like rage. It pulsed in his veins. Every fiber of his muscles screamed with it until it burst along his bones, through his hands, and into the skeleton. Matthis collapsed.

He woke by vomiting again, but he hadn't needed food for days. So he heaved and heaved and heaved. He felt mud under his fingers and Rafe's hand on his back. He saw only stars. His eyes felt pushed outward. Then his cheek was in mud. He lay there for some time and heaved several more times, but with less force than before. His muscles buzzed. With Rafe's help, he pulled himself to the gallows post and sat with his back leaned against it and his legs splayed. He panted, eyes closed.

"Did ..." Matthis said between breaths, "did it ... work?" He could still see stars.

"The skeleton is here." Rafe sounded calm. "This is what magic was like for me the first time." He paused. "I've never tried domination on undead before, though."

"How could you possibly get used to this?"

"You already know the answer to that."

Eyes still closed, Matthis nodded. Practice. But the motion caused a fresh wave of nausea to lurch through his stomach. After a few minutes of deep breathing, Matthis opened his eyes.

The bottom half of the gibbet had transformed into thin green vines. Tiny red thorns poked in every direction. The white bones that were once Osric stood inside the tangle. Its empty sockets stared in no particular direction. Rafe was kneeling in the mud next to Matthis, and his toe almost made contact with the skeleton's foot. Matthis had seen it stuff bits of flesh between its ribs many times, with squirrel and rabbit meat, and bits of the dead wizard. A breathing person knelt next to it, and it did nothing. Bits of the thorny vine had gotten lodged into the skeleton's hip and pelvic bones. It did nothing to remove them. The alarm chains that had swung under the gibbet lay in a pile at the skeleton's feet.

Thrushes chirped at each other in the trees. A raven's croak echoed from far away, high up the Blackvein mountains. A merry chickadee whistled nearby. Mud soaked Matthis' trousers and caked his entire right side.