Matthis took four steps before he realized that everything had changed. He looked back at the tunnel. He saw a wall of black. He looked forward. It was a wall of white. He reached forward and touched nothing. He crouched down and touched the floor. Solid, but not cold stone. Too smooth to be wood.
When he tried to stand again, something slammed into his shoulder. He looked left and his nose touched the floor. He had fallen sideways. 
He closed his eyes and breathed. Mine gas, perhaps. That was it. It had to be it. He needed to turn back. It would poison him. 
He rolled to face the tunnel. It has become a black dot on a wall of white. Too far away. Low to the ground, he crawled toward the dot. But every shuffling movement forward made it smaller, smaller, smaller. 
He didn't know how long he lay there. Unlike the mine, this white place didn't stop time. It was not-time. He shut his eyes. No. It was older than time. More ancient. The ancestor of time. 
When he opened his eyes this time, the white around him took shape. A room. Like a bowl. A perfectly sqherical room. The floor sloped down toward a cluster of tables at its center. He looked up, and the ceiling was a perfect bowl as well. Far, far away, there was a tiny dot the size of the mole on his left forearm. On the ceiling. He squinted. A dark trail of dust tracked its way from the dot in the ceiling, zig zagged down the sloped wall, and ended where he stood. 
Somehow, he had entered through the ceiling and down the wall. Or perhaps he stood on the ceiling now. Or perhaps a wall. 
The tables clustered together held various silver or gold instruments, like utensils, but without an obvious purpose he could discern or guess. He dared not touch any of them. Some looked sharp, or heavy, or dangerous, but he couldn't tell why. 
Matthis focused instead on the books. Dozens of them lay everywhere, opened, stacked together. He inspected one with red and black ink. Like most in Blackvein, he couldn't read, but he had never seen writing like this before. The pages smelled nothing like the vellum used for the ledgers he had seen at the Miner's Guild house. The black cover of one felt odd, sticky and slick. Unlike the usual leather. He opened it. Blank. But the quality. Now he knew it wasn't vellum, but paper. Exquisite. Extravagant. One page of a single book here could be worth a miner's entire week of wages. And if any of them had inlaid gold foil, even if the language was illegible, it would be worth half the mine. Or more.
He laid the black book down to feel the table legs. Smooth but not like metal, earthy but unlike wood. He knelt to test the joints. Not only did they resist him, but he found no transition from table top to leg. The entire table was a single, seamless piece. 
He circled the tables four times. He laid the black book down to look at an instrument that reminded him of a needle, but never came to a point. And he could not tell if it was the length of his hand or as long as his thumbnail. He didn't dare touch it to find out. One book lay open to a drawing of something he almost recognized, like a tree, but upside down. He was about to turn it around when he realized the black book sat under his arm, but he couldn't remember putting it there. He set it down and inspected the drawing. But this wasn't a book, it was a stack of papers folded together. He laid the black book next to it with the vague feeling like he had already done that, and spun the drawing around. No matter which direction it faced, the drawing still resembled an upside down tree. Its branches twisted in a distinct way that reminded him of curly hair. 
Another drawing depicted something that reminded him of a house of he stood far enough away, but the closer he moved his face toward it, the more it resembled a hearth. The fire crackled on the page, and he could almost hear Elspeth telling him to sit down. Could almost taste her bread. 
He stepped back. The dot overhead looked eternally out of reach. He nodded and turned to go, reaching to stuff the black book in his satchel. Oh wait. He returned to the table and placed the book on it. He must have picked it up again and forgotten. Perhaps. He looked up again. The dot seemed so far away. He backed away a few steps, thinking of a way to get up there. 
The dot widened. He stepped forward. It shrank again. He turned around on the spot, careful not to move forward or backward. The dot remained. He walked forward again, certain he moved away from the tables. The dot shrank. Frowning, he adjusted his satchel and walked backward. The dot expanded. Confused, he bent his neck down and massaged the ache. Ahead, the floor curved up and away. Behind him, the tables had vanished. But he was sure they were there. He spun, frantic to find them. They were stuck to the wall, far to his left. He looked up. the dot was there, the size of his knuckle. He stepped back. It widened to the size of his palm. A step, and it expanded to the size of his fist. Now his head. It grew large enough for his shoulders to fit through. He looked around again for the tables but couldn't find them anywhere until he looked straight ahead and saw a smudge in the distance. He craned his neck again and reached out to the hole. 
His hands made contact with dirt. By instinct, he jumped and pulled himself through the hole and landed back in the dark tunnel onto his side. 