A hollow rattle woke Matthis in the Death Guild hut. Three small boxes lined the bare wall opposite his cot. He had broken pieces of bone from three of the skeletons the night before and ground them in a pestle he made. The box in the middle made a rattle sound, then a scratch. He opened it. An ivory finger bone wiggled along the edge of the box. It scratched and flung itself, random, directionless. 
Outside, he held the box under the gallows. The skeletons hung limp in their gibbets. His eyes on the finger, he walked along the line of cages. The bone's movement didn't change when its body was near.
"Why've you got sticks in cages, mister?"
A muddy child stood next to a gray, filthy dog with matted fur. The boy's eyes were round and curious. Innocent. 
Matthis rubbed his neck. "What's your name?"
"Can I have one of the sticks?" 
The panting dog yawned and lay next to the boy. It turned its long snout away from the gallows. It yawned again and stood. It turned in a circle and whined. 
"Tell me young boy," said Matthis. He put an edge in his tone. "Why would anyone put sticks in cages?"
"Cos Bikka takes them away, that's why." The boy puffed his chest in defiance. "And you has good ones, you has. Nice and thick. Good for Notty." He patted the dog's head. It relaxed in a sitting position. Then it stood and yawned, and paced a circle beside the boy. 
Matthis bit the inside of his cheek. "Let me show you something, lad."
He knelt at the boy's feet. The dog backed away as he approached, eyes on the box in Matthis' hand. 
"What you got a worm in there for?" The dog growled. "Hush, Notty."
"You must understand, boy," said Matthis, the edge in his voice again. He picked up the finger bone and set it in the boy's hand. "It's not a worm, you see?"
The bone wiggled between the boy's fingers. The boy's hand jerked. He shouted. The bone flew at Matthis' chest. 
"What's a bone moving like that? That's not what bones do." He stomped his little feet. The dog barked at the wiggling bone, eyes wild, tail tucked.
"Why?" the boy cried. "Why would you do something like that? Bodies should be in the ground. Bikka says, when people die, they go in the ground." Tears streaked the boy's thin cheeks. "Less they can't move on, Bikka says."
Bikka. The vicar. Of course.
Matthis plucked the bone from the dirt and placed it in the box. He shut the lid. The dog stopped barking. 
"The vicar is right," he said. Gentle. "But you see them?" He pointed at the bones.  "They don't stay in the ground."
The boy's red eyes widened. He stopped crying. "Those are bones, aren't they?" He hiccupped. "But why?"
Memories shot behind Matthis' eyes like lightning. Freshly dug graves under the gallows. Miners gathered around the holes with their shovels and pickaxes to help. Lowering one of the undead bones into the hole, wrapped in chains and nailed into a box. One week. It took one week for them to claw their way out. He was there. The skull pushed out of the mound. It's soulless sockets full of dust and dirt and mud. He shook the memory from his hands. It clung harder than coal dust.
Matthis sat on the ground in front of the boy. Their eyes held.
"Wouldn't want them walking around. Would we?"
For a moment, the boy looked like he might melt into Matthis' arms. His shoulders rounded. His hands lifted toward Matthis. But he stopped himself and bared his teeth. "That's scary." The boy backed away. "You're scary, bone man."
Matthis stood. His legs shook. The box weighed too much. He watched the boy and the dog run away, the dog barking, the boy yelling, "Bone man, bone man." He sighed. He'd hoped to comfort them.
Matthis opened the box and wrestled the finger in his palm. He marched to one of the skeletons and batted away its desperate scratches for his eyes, face, any soft flesh it could find. He jammed the finger back onto the bleached knuckle. Bone man. Salt and dust lodged behind his teeth. A cold laugh slipped out. Dry and hollow as bone.